###My classwork taking the O'Reilly School of Technology Python Certificate courses

I started this python certificate course in November of 2014 and
completed it August of 2015. It was a terrific course!

Sadly, the O'Reilly School of Technology has recently closed and is
not accepting new students. But it was a terrific place to learn, and
I am very disappointed that I won't be able to take anymore classes
there. I'm sure I'm not alone.

The PDF files (the actual lesson content) are free. Anyone can read
through them, since O'Reilly published them under the creative
commons license. There's a PDF file in each of the following
directories. What will not be in the free PDF file is the collection
of projects and quizzes for each lesson. Your actual mentor would go
through your project and your quizzes for each lesson and would grade
them. He/she would make sure every single aspect of the project was
according to spec and that each quiz question was answered correctly.
Each project that wasn't passed was given a 'Try Again', and you were
expected to correct your mistakes until you got a 'Great' upon
submitting your fixes.

My two instructors were Pat Barton and Kirby Urner. I had Pat for
Python1, Python2, and Python4. I had Kirby for Python3. Steve Holden
wrote the original lesson material used throughout the entire
certificate series.

O'Reilly still owns the content of the lesson projects and quizzes.
They are not mine to give. But with that proviso, I can share with
prospective employers my text files containing the project
assignments as they were given to me, so that my programs can be
given some context. Each lesson had sample python programs that I was
to type in and experiment with to see how the language worked. Many
projects extended or modified one or more of these programs from the
lesson.

Those descriptions for each lesson are included in text files called
`Lesson??_Name_of_Lesson.txt` in their respective course directories.
Each course directory (eg, Python1, Python2, etc) contains the course
PDF file, a collection of `Lesson??_Name.txt` files, and a list of
related python programs from that particular course. Each
`Lesson??_Name.txt` file contains project information that has a
`Filename(s): whatever1.py test_whatever1.py` line. Thereby you can
read the python programs associated with each project and each
lesson.

I hope this information can help others as well as give my
prospective employers a chance to learn about my experience at
O'Reilly School of Technology for the Python Certificate.
